Better Redux-related docs, word wrapping (#7023)
plone/volto: docs/source/contributing/redux.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    'description': 'How to access global state in Volto using Redux'
    'property=og:description': 'How to access global state in Volto using Redux'
    'property=og:title': 'Redux'

>     'keywords': 'Volto, Plone, frontend, React, Redux, global state'

Reviewer: Please revert and turn off reformatting of `.md` files in your editor for Plone projects.

# Redux

```{note}
This documentation is a work in progress.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Any help is welcome to fill in the gaps!
```

As with any other complex React project, the way global state is handled across
all components has a big impact on the overall architecture.

> 
> Basic knowledge of {term}`Redux` is needed to understand this part, but Volto's
> use of Redux is "typical" and you can find plenty of examples in Volto's code
> base.

Reviewer: You're still wrapping sentences to a line length. We use one sentence per line.

We also don't need one sentence per paragraph by having two line breaks between sentences. We need to preserve the paragraphs.

```suggestion
Basic knowledge of {term}`Redux` is needed to understand this part, but Volto's use of Redux is "typical" and you can find plenty of examples in Volto's code base.
```

To access the global state, a component needs to be connected with `connect`. A
simple example of such component is the

> {file}`src/components/theme/ContactForm/ContactForm.jsx`, which is exported
> connected as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{file}`src/components/theme/ContactForm/ContactForm.jsx`, which is exported connected as follows:
```

gaps!
```

As with any other complex React project, the way global state is handled across
all components has a big impact on the overall architecture. Basic knowledge of
{term}`Redux` is needed to understand this part, but Volto's use of Redux is
"typical" and you can find plenty of examples in Volto's code base.

To access the global state, a component needs to be connected with `connect`. A
simple example of such component is the

> `src/components/theme/ContactForm/ContactForm.jsx`, which is exported connected

Reviewer: MyST syntax for semantic markup.

```suggestion
{file}`src/components/theme/ContactForm/ContactForm.jsx`, which is exported connected
```

)(ContactForm);
```

If multiple Higher Order Components need to be used, like in the above example, the `compose` can be used to combine all of them in a final component.

If you're writing Function Components, you can use the `useSelector` {term}`hook`.
See {file}`src/components/theme/OutdatedBrowser/OutdatedBrowser.jsx` for an example.

> When using the `connect` function, you can `select` parts from the global store and either pass them directly as component props, or tweak them, combine them etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `connect` function, you can `select` parts from the global store and either pass them directly as component props, tweak them, or combine them.
```

You can view the content of the global Redux store by using a browser [Redux

> developer extension for
> Chromium/Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd) or [for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/reduxdevtools/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
developer extension for Chromium/Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd) or [for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/reduxdevtools/).
```

The code that is used to populate this store is in the {file}`src/reducers` folder.

In some parts of Volto you'll see `asyncConnect` being used, which is needed to enable proper {term}`server-side rendering` of components.
Using it makes sure that the component will be constructed with the proper data already fetched from the backend and available as props.

```{note}
Beware!
The `asyncConnect` is available only to components that are attached directly to the router or its children.

> There are some components that decide their "rendering path" at render time, so this prohibits the use of asyncConnect in that component tree.
> The biggest example of this is {file}`src/components/theme/View/View.jsx` which decides on the render component based on inspecting the content, so it is not possible to use asyncConnect in any view/layout component!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some components that decide their "rendering path" at render time, so this prohibits the use of `asyncConnect` in that component tree.
The biggest example of this is {file}`src/components/theme/View/View.jsx` which decides on the render component based on inspecting the content, so it is not possible to use `asyncConnect` in any view/layout component!
```

```

Notice the `emailNotification` action being passed to `connect` in the above example.

> All actions (which trigger global state updates) need to be passed as props by `connect`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All actions which trigger global state updates need to be passed as props by `connect`.
```

> You can't properly trigger an action unless you access it as a prop, for example `this.props.emailNotification()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't properly trigger an action unless you access it as a prop, for example, `this.props.emailNotification()`.
```

For Function Components you can use the `useDispatch` hook.

Global state update fetches are typically triggered by components in the mount lifecycle stage.
See for example {file}`src/components/theme/Search/Search.jsx` for a component that needs to interact with the backend to show its content.
In the Redux flow of information, actions trigger the asynchronous processes and when that content arrives to the global app, it is pushed as props through the `connect` mechanism.
So components only deal indirectly with async information: they trigger getting that information and it will arrive as a property once it is ready.

## Backend network fetching

Backend network fetches are automatically triggered by creating a Redux action with a `request` key.
For a simple example, see {file}`src/actions/navigation/navigation.js`.

> In the `request` key you can set the HTTP method type (using the `op` field) and the `path` to the backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `request` key you can set the HTTP method type using the `op` field and the `path` to the backend.
```

> Any non-absolute URLs are using the `settings.apiPath` prefix, but you can query any other backend server by using a URL that starts with `http://` or `https://`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any non-absolute URLs use the `settings.apiPath` prefix, but you can query any other backend server by using a URL that starts with `http://` or `https://`.
```

When writing the reducer counterpart, you'll get the backend response available as `action.result`.

It's also possible to make multiple backend requests at once, for example to batch create content.
In that case, set the `action.request` to be a list of objects (requests) and consequently, in the reducer, the `action.result` will be a list of responses corresponding to each request.
See the {file}`src/reducers/content` for an example.

> In order to make them more generic and allow more reuse, some actions can accept a `subrequest` parameter, basically a string that can identify the response and "namespace" it in the global state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make them more generic and allow more reuse, some actions can accept a `subrequest` parameter, which is a string that can identify the response and "namespace" it in the global state.
```

> See for example the `content` reducer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See, for example, the `content` reducer.
```

> Using subrequest is specially important when using the `getContent` action, as, without it, it would overwrite the global `state.content` store with possible wrong content for the current context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `subrequest` is especially important when using the `getContent` action, as without it, it would overwrite the global `state.content` store with possibly wrong content for the current context.
```

Creating a "request action" potentially triggers some additional access.

> For example, even if we only declare the `GET_CONTENT` type of action, we can see that `GET_CONTENT_SUCCESS`, `GET_CONTENT_PENDING` and `GET_CONTENT_FAIL` are also used in the `content` reducer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, even if we only declare the `GET_CONTENT` type of action, we can see that `GET_CONTENT_SUCCESS`, `GET_CONTENT_PENDING` and `GET_CONTENT_FAIL`, are also used in the `content` reducer.
```

They are automatically created by the special API middleware, available in {file}`src/middleware/api.js`.

## Customizing the Redux middleware

> It is possible to tweak Volto's {term}`Redux middleware`, for example to add new middleware by using the `config.settings.storeExtender` configuration option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to tweak Volto's {term}`Redux middleware`.
For example, to add new middleware, use the `config.settings.storeExtender` configuration option.
```

> If you have Redux middleware that you want to insert as the first middleware to be used, for example, you could configure your project with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have Redux middleware that you want to insert as the first middleware to be used, for example, you could configure your project with the following code.
```

If multiple Higher Order Components need to be used, like in the above example,
the `compose` can be used to combine all of them in a final component.

If you're writing Function Components, you can use the `useSelector`

> {term}`hook`. See `src/components/theme/OutdatedBrowser/OutdatedBrowser.jsx` for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{term}`hook`. See {file}`src/components/theme/OutdatedBrowser/OutdatedBrowser.jsx` for
```

an example.

When using the `connect` function, you can `select` parts from the global store
and either pass them directly as component props, or tweak them combine them,
etc.

You can view the content of the global Redux store by using a browser [Redux
developer extension for
Chromium/Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/redux-devtools/lmhkpmbekcpmknklioeibfkpmmfibljd)
or [for Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/reduxdevtools/).

The code that is used to populate this store is in the `src/reducers` folder.

In some parts of Volto you'll see `asyncConnect` being used, which is needed to
enable proper {term}`server-side rendering` of components. Using it makes sure
that the component will be constructed with the proper data already fetched from
the backend and available as props.

```{note}
Beware! The `asyncConnect` is available only to components that are
attached directly to the router or its children. There are some components
that decide their "rendering path" at render time, so this prohibits the
use of asyncConnect in that component tree. The biggest example of this is

> `src/components/theme/View/View.jsx` which decides on the render component based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{file}`src/components/theme/View/View.jsx` which decides on the render component based
```

the `compose` can be used to combine all of them in a final component.

If you're writing Function Components, you can use the `useSelector`
{term}`hook`.

> 
> See {file}`src/components/theme/OutdatedBrowser/OutdatedBrowser.jsx` for an
> example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See {file}`src/components/theme/OutdatedBrowser/OutdatedBrowser.jsx` for an example.
```

The code that is used to populate this store is in the `src/reducers` folder.

In some parts of Volto you'll see `asyncConnect` being used, which is needed to
enable proper {term}`server-side rendering` of components.

> 
> Using it makes sure that the component will be constructed with the proper data
> already fetched from the backend and available as props.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using it makes sure that the component will be constructed with the proper data already fetched from the backend and available as props.
```

```{note}

> Beware! The `asyncConnect` is available only to components that are attached
> directly to the router or its children.
> 
> There are some components that decide their "rendering path" at render time, so
> this prohibits the use of asyncConnect in that component tree.
> 
> The biggest example of this is {file}`src/components/theme/View/View.jsx` which
> decides on the render component based on inspecting the content, so it is not
> possible to use asyncConnect in any view/layout component!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beware!
The `asyncConnect` is available only to components that are attached directly to the router or its children.
There are some components that decide their "rendering path" at render time, so this prohibits the use of `asyncConnect` in that component tree.
The biggest example of this is {file}`src/components/theme/View/View.jsx` which decides on the render component based on inspecting the content, so it is not possible to use `asyncConnect` in any view or layout component!
```

```

Notice the `emailNotification` action being passed to `connect` in the above

> example.
> 
> All actions (which trigger global state updates) need to be passed as props by
> `connect`.
> 
> You can't properly trigger an action unless you access it as a prop, for example
> `this.props.emailNotification()`.
> 
> For Function Components you can use the `useDispatch` hook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example.
All actions (which trigger global state updates) need to be passed as props by `connect`.
You can't properly trigger an action unless you access it as a prop, for example `this.props.emailNotification()`.
For function components, you can use the `useDispatch` hook.
```

Global state update fetches are typically triggered by components in the mount
lifecycle stage.

> 
> See for example `src/components/theme/Search/Search.jsx` for a component that
> needs to interact with the backend to show its content.
> 
> In the Redux flow of information, actions trigger the asynchronous processes
> and when that content arrives to the global app, it is pushed as props through
> the `connect` mechanism.
> 
> So components only deal indirectly with async information: they trigger getting
> that information and it will arrive as a property once it is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See for example {file}`src/components/theme/Search/Search.jsx` for a component that needs to interact with the backend to show its content.
In the Redux flow of information, actions trigger the asynchronous processes, and when that content arrives to the global app, it is pushed as props through the `connect` mechanism.
So components only deal indirectly with async information: they trigger getting that information and it will arrive as a property once it is ready.
```

## Backend network fetching

Backend network fetches are automatically triggered by creating a Redux action

> with a `request` key.
> 
> For a simple example, see `src/actions/navigation/navigation.js`. In the
> `request` key you can set the HTTP method type (using the `op` field) and the
> `path` to the backend.
> 
> Any non-absolute URLs are using the `settings.apiPath` prefix, but you can query
> any other backend server by using a URL that starts with `http://` or
> `https://`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with a `request` key.
For a simple example, see {file}`src/actions/navigation/navigation.js`.
In the `request` key you can set the HTTP method type (using the `op` field) and the
`path` to the backend.
Any non-absolute URLs use the `settings.apiPath` prefix, but you can query any other backend server by using a URL that starts with `http://` or `https://`.
```

When writing the reducer counterpart, you'll get the backend response available
as `action.result`.

It's also possible to make multiple backend requests at once, for example to

> batch create content.
> 
> In that case, set the `action.request` to be a list of objects (requests) and
> consequently, in the reducer, the `action.result` will be a list of responses
> corresponding to each request.
> 
> See the `src/reducers/content` for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
batch create content.
In that case, set the `action.request` to be a list of objects (requests) and consequently, in the reducer, the `action.result` will be a list of responses corresponding to each request.
See the `src/reducers/content` for an example.
```

In order to make them more generic and allow more reuse, some actions can
accept a `subrequest` parameter, basically a string that can identify the

> response and "namespace" it in the global state.
> 
> See for example the `content` reducer.
> 
> Using subrequest is specially important when using the `getContent`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
response and "namespace" it in the global state.
See for example the `content` reducer.
Using subrequest is especially important when using the `getContent`
```

action, as, without it, it would overwrite the global `state.content` store
with possible wrong content for the current context.

> Creating a "request action" potentially triggers some additional access.
> 
> For example, even if we only declare the `GET_CONTENT` type of action, we can
> see that `GET_CONTENT_SUCCESS`, `GET_CONTENT_PENDING` and `GET_CONTENT_FAIL` are
> also used in the `content` reducer.
> 
> They are automatically created by the special API middleware, available in
> `src/middleware/api.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a "request action" potentially triggers some additional access.
For example, even if we only declare the `GET_CONTENT` type of action, we can
see that `GET_CONTENT_SUCCESS`, `GET_CONTENT_PENDING`, and `GET_CONTENT_FAIL` are
also used in the `content` reducer.
They are automatically created by the special API middleware, available in
{file}`src/middleware/api.js`.
```

## Customizing the Redux middleware

It is possible to tweak Volto's {term}`Redux middleware`, for example to add new
middleware by using the `config.settings.storeExtender` configuration option.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
